What's behind China's space programme expansion Part 3

"China has shown a great advance and a will to collaborate with
international partners," he said.

There is one country it cannot collaborate with, however: US
counter-espionage legislation restricts Nasa from working bilaterally
with Chinese nationals without express permission from Congress.

It has also been suggested that, despite appearing to aim to play
catch-up with the US and Russia, China potentially doesn't view itself
as being in a race with anyone.

"China is following its own motivations and interests rather than
pacing its programme in competition with anybody else," John Logsdon,
founder of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University,
told Wired magazine last year. "In my view, China is determining for
itself what it wants to do, not in any formal competition with the
quite uncertain plans of anybody else."

But, of course, space exploration is not just about political game
playing.

There are also "genuine scientific objectives" to the Chang'e-4
mission, Dr Robert Massey of the Royal Astronomical Society pointed
out.

Prof Ouyang also spoke of the country's scientific and technological
goals in an interview with the BBC back in 2013.

"In terms of the science, besides Earth we also need to know our
brothers and sisters like the Moon, its origin and evolution and then
from that we can know about our Earth," he said.

And then there was the vast potential for resources, some of which
could "solve human beings' energy demand for around 10,000 years at
least".

Bringing them back, however, remains a challenge - but one which China
will seek to solve: Chang'e-5 and 6 are sample return missions,
delivering lunar rock and soil to laboratories on Earth.  Magpies and
the Moon goddess

There are many elements of Chinese mythology present in China's space
exploration program. to the Magpie bridge, China's relay
satellite. Here's some background behind the names:

Chang'e (pronounced Chang-er): China's lunar probe is named after the
Moon goddess and one of the most popular figures in Chinese
mythology. She was a beautiful young woman married to a famous archer,
Hou-yi, who managed to win an immortality potion. He decided not to
take it as it was only enough for one, giving it to Chang'e for
safekeeping. But one day a student of Hou-yi tried to steal the
potion. Unable to defeat him, Chang'e drank the potion and floated to
the Moon, where she still lives. Hou-yi was heartbroken and every year
when the Moon was at its fullest, he would lay out her favourite food
in tribute to her - an annual tradition across China ever since.

Jade rabbit: China's Moon rover is named after Chang'e's only
companion on the Moon

Magpie bridge: China's relay satellite takes its name from the story
of a goddess's daughter who falls in love with a poor farm hand. They
get married and eventually have children. But when the goddess finds
out, she's furious - and banishes them to different sides of the Milky
Way. Feeling sorry for the grieving couple, magpies decide that once a
year, they would form a bridge to connect the two lovers. This day is
celebrated every year in China, their own version of Valentine's Day.


