Climate change: Is nuclear power the answer? Part 2

But no-one has been willing to invest at scale in the expensive CCS
technology, which pumps CO2 emissions into rocks.

Wind is ready to take its place in the sun. But with old nuclear
stations closing, nuclear won't be able to fulfil its third of the
deal unless new nuclear plants are built.

The issue has caused a bitter divide between environmentalists, with
some arguing that the risk from climate change is so severe that it's
worth supping nuclear fuel, albeit with a long spoon.

Others argue that the technology is dead and that renewables and other
options can supply the UK's needs without the danger of nuclear
accidents and waste.

Prof Jim Watson, director of the UK Energy Research Centre, told BBC
News: "Most analysts now have accepted that we don't need 30% of
energy from nuclear - renewables can take a substantially bigger
share.

"But taking any option off the table makes the job of meeting
essential carbon targets even harder. It would certainly be hard to do
without nuclear altogether."  What are the alternatives?

The people who keep our lights on are looking to find ways of
extending the life of existing nuclear plants, and trying to get
nuclear power more cheaply.

Factory-built small modular reactors that can be delivered on the back
of a lorry are touted as one solution - but they are not expected to
be operating at any scale until well into the 2030s. And what's more,
with nuclear, bigger is generally better.

Meanwhile, other options are being urgently explored. We need the
power market to be more flexible. We need to develop better batteries
and other techniques for storing power.

And we need systems that will reduce the demand for electricity at
peak times and transfer the demand to off-peak times when wind energy
is plentiful and cheap.

One particularly hard task is to find ways of storing power between
months and even seasons.

Last but by no means least, the government needs to prompt people to
insulate their homes to reduce the demand for energy in the first
place.
