World's coffee under threat, say experts Part 1

The first full assessment of risks to the world's coffee plants shows
that 60% of 124 known species are on the edge of extinction.

More than 100 types of coffee tree grow naturally in forests,
including two used for the coffee we drink.

Scientists say the figure is "worrying", as wild coffee is critical
for sustaining the global coffee crop.

About one in five of the world's plants is threatened with extinction,
and the 60% figure is an "extremely high" one.

"If it wasn't for wild species we wouldn't have as much coffee to
drink in the world today," said Dr Aaron Davis of the Royal Botanic
Gardens, Kew.

"Because if you look at the history of coffee cultivation, we have
used wild species to make the coffee crop sustainable."

Research published in the journal, Science Advances, found
conservation measures were "inadequate" for wild coffees, including
those considered "critical" for long-term global coffee production.

The study found that 75 wild coffee species are considered threatened
with extinction, 35 are not threatened and too little is known about
the remaining 14 to make any judgement.

Furthermore, it was found that 28% of wild coffee species grow outside
protected areas and only about half are preserved in seed banks.

A second study, in Global Change Biology, found that wild Arabica
coffee can be classed as threatened under official (IUCN Red List)
rankings, when climate change projections are taken into account.

Its natural population is likely to shrink by up to 50% or more by
2088 because of climate change alone, according to the research.

Wild Arabica is used to supply seeds for coffee farming and also as a
harvested crop in its own right.

Ethiopia is the home of Arabica coffee, where it grows naturally in
upland rainforests.

"Given the importance of Arabica coffee to Ethiopia, and to the world,
we need to do our utmost to understand the risks facing its survival
in the wild," said Dr Tadesse Woldemariam Gole, of the Environment and
Coffee Forest Forum in Addis Ababa.  What is wild coffee and why do we
need it?

