World's coffee under threat, say experts Part 2

Many coffee drinkers are unaware that we only use the coffee beans
from two species - Coffea Arabica and Coffea robusta - in the
thousands of different blends of coffee on sale.

In fact, there are 122 coffee species on top of that which occur
naturally in the wild.

Many of these wild coffees do not taste good to drink, but may contain
genes that can be harnessed to help coffee plants survive in the
future, amid climate change and emerging diseases that attack coffee
trees.

In the longer term, we will need to call on wild species to safeguard
the future of the world's coffee crop, say researchers.

"We will call on those wild resources time and time again," said Dr
Davis.  How does coffee compare to other plants in terms of extinction
risks?

Globally, about one in five plants is threatened with extinction,
compared with 60% for coffee.

As a comparison, about half of wild tea and mango species are
threatened with extinction, 6% of hazelnuts and 9% of pistachios.
Where is wild coffee found?

The vast majority of wild coffee grows in the remote forests of Africa
and on the island of Madagascar. Beyond Africa, wild coffee is found
in other tropical climates, including parts of India, Sri Lanka, and
Australia.  What types of coffee do we drink?

Global coffee trade relies on two species - Arabica (Coffea arabica)
and Robusta (Coffea canephora).

A third species - Liberica (Coffea liberica) is grown around the
world, but is rarely used for coffee drinks.  What are crop wild
relatives?

Crop wild relatives are wild plants that are genetically related to
cultivated crops.

They continue to evolve in the wild, and can be crossed with
domesticated crops.

They have been used to improve the yields and nutritional quality of
crops since the dawn of agriculture.  What are scientists calling for?

They say we must understand the risks to coffee farming and make sure
we have the resources in place to overcome threats.

Coffee trees, like many tropical plants, have seeds that do not
survive the freeze-drying process used in conventional seed banks -
45% of coffee species have not been "backed up" outside the wild.

Dr Eimear Nic Lughadha of Kew said this is the first time an IUCN Red
List assessment has been carried out to find the extinction risk of
the world's coffee, and the figure of 60% is "extremely high".

"We hope this new data will highlight species to be prioritised for
the sustainability of the coffee production sector, so that
appropriate action can be taken to safeguard the species," she said.

