What's behind China's space programme expansion Part 2

"It also sends signals out to their neighbours - it is a good way of
showing soft power, with a little bit of hard."

China itself has been open about the value of space exploration in
terms of increasing its standing on the world stage.

"Lunar exploration is a reflection of a country's comprehensive
national power," Prof Ouyang Ziyuan - one of the country's top
scientists - told China's official newspaper People's Daily back in
2006.

"It is significant for raising our international prestige and
increasing our people's cohesion."  A new space race?

But it is not the prestige which is likely to be of concern to
countries like the US.

Vice-President Mike Pence unveiled plans for a "US Space Force" in
August 2018, saying it was needed because "our adversaries have
transformed space into a war-fighting domain already". At the time, it
was interpreted as a swipe at both Russia and China.

However, despite China's latest success and future plans, Prof Hayward
doesn't seem to think the US needs to be worried.

"The US is still a big, big spender - not necessarily through Nasa
[the US space agency], but through the Pentagon," he said. "I cannot
see China being able to match that level of spending."

But is this a new space race? After all, the landing came just days
after Nasa's New Horizons probe successfully carried out a flyby of an
icy world some 6.5bn km (4bn miles) away. India, meanwhile, has
announced it will send a three-member team into space for the first
time in 2022. It seems like everyone is keen to make their mark.

So will China's advance worry other countries enough to cause them to
adjust their future plans?

Unlikely, says Prof Hayward. "It is difficult to respond quickly - you
are dealing here with some very long term plans."

What's more, Bernard Foing, executive director of the European Space
Agency's International Lunar Exploration Working Group, noted that any
advance was good for the wider world.

